#
# Note: Lines with a @@ as the first two characters indicate the start/end
#       of a section of the docs and SHOULD NOT be modified.
#
# Note #2: The next few lines describe the manual sections... don't mess with
#          them.
#
NUMITEMS 6
USERDOC User Manual
USERNEW New features in this version of LOD
USERQCK Quickstart Documentation
LODWALK Walkthrough of LOD
GTERM GTERM Terminal information
Q&A Questions and Answers
@@USERDOC
Land Of Devastation
By Scott M. Baker

Objective
---------
      What are you here to do? How do you win the Game? What is the meaning
  of life? For answers to these questions, please see the game objective
  command in the documentation center.

Section 1.1: Character Basics
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

      Each player in LOD has one and only one character with which to explore
the game. You're given a character at logon time and you keep that character
until it dies - at which point you may make a new character, regenerate the
dead one, or a few other options.

      The main features of a character are the attributes and the inventory.
Attributes are numeric representations of your characters abilities and
physical characteristics. The inventory is the collection of items that your
character is carrying at any given moment.

      In addition to the inventory that you are carrying (think of it as
being stored in a "backpack"), there are also several equipped items.
Equipped items are special items that you have readied and are prepared to
use at a moments notice.

Section 1.2: Attributes
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

      Your character has four basic attributes. These are strength (STR),
dexterity (DEX), agility (AGL), and health (HITS). These attributes determine
your strengths and weaknesses when it comes to combat.

* STRENGTH
      Strength effects how hard you can hit with your weapons. The higher
your strength, the more damage you will do in hand-to-hand combat.

* DEXTERITY
      Your ability to hit what you are aiming at. The higher your dexterity
in relation to an opponents agility, the better your odds of hitting that
opponent.

* AGILITY
      Your ability to run away, dodge attacks, and perform certain actions
in combat. The better your agility in relation to an opponent's dexterity,
the better your odds of performing these actions.

* HEALTH/HITPOINTS
      Your current hit points are your life. Hitpoints are divided into two
numbers in the format "xx/yy" or "xx of yy". The first number is always the
number of hitpoints that you presently have. The second is the maximum number
of hitpoins that you can accumulate. For example, 20/25 would mean your
character has 20 out of a possible 25 hitpoints.

      There is one other attribute that is not directly related to your
character's physical characteristics. It is EXPERIENCE. Experience is the
sum of all the knowledge that you have gained from combat encounters and
special quests. The more you play and fight, the more experience you will
gain.

      The LEVEL of your character is derived from the experience. Every so
often, you will accumulate enough experience points to "go up a level". When
you rise a level, you will be allowed to apply additional points to your
basic attributes.

Section 1.3: Experience/Level table
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

 Level          Experience
 -----          ----------
   1                     0
   2                  1250
   3                  2500
   4                  5000
   5                 10000
   6                 20000
   7                 40000
   8                 80000
   9                160000
  10                320000
  11                480000
  12                640000
  13                800000
  14                960000

      When you have enough experience to gain a level, report directly to
Sacre Base. As soon as you arrive, you will be given the option of training
for various attributes.

      When training, you may allocate your training points however you wish
to Strength, Dexterity, Agility, Hit Points, or trade training points for
cash. Cash is usually a poor idea since levels become increasingly difficult
the further you progress. Your best bet to attain cash is by salvaging
equipment from the wasteland.

      There are several different special quests which can be accomplished
out in the wastelands. A quest could be as simple as delivering a special
item to a certain place or as complicated as having to locate and slay a
particular monster. It's up to you to discover what these quests are!
Completing a special quest usually has the following benefits:

      1) An experience bonus.

      2) Accumulation of quest points - gives you a certain amount of
         "prestige" in the quest points section of the rankings.

      3) A special item - many quests result in you gaining a special item
         or learning a useful clue about the game.

Section 1.4: Team Play
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

      From time to time, it has been noticed that soldiers have grouped
themselves together to form "teams". These teams provide a number of
benefits:

      1) Smart Mines which are placed by one team member will not explode
         when another member enters the area.

      2) Team members will be able to see each others fortresses using
         the fortlist ROM as well as teleport to each others fortresses
         without any fee (regardless of the list-with-traders-union
         option)

      3) Teams with 2 or more members will get an automatic 5% team discount
         at all city stores.

      4) Team members can bypass other teammate's fortress TOLL and PROX
         systems without harm.

      5) The bank will grant larger loans to players who are on a team based
         upon the combined value of the team members.

      Options for team play can usually be found at the troop quarters of any
city.

Section 1.5: Equipped items
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

      Items are equipped by use of the Q)-equip command. You may only
select the appropriate type of item for the appropriate equipment slot.

* CLOSE COMBAT WEAPON
      Please see the chapter on combat.

* RANGED COMBAT WEAPON
      Please see the chapter on combat.

* ARMOR
      Please see the chapter on combat.

* AUX-WEAPON/SHIELD
      Please see the chapter on combat.

* MEDICAL LINING

      Medical lining is a special suit that you wear underneath your armor.
It is kind of an automated medkit. While you are moving about, the medical
lining pumps you full of chemicals, increasing your hit points as you move.

      Medical lining is rated in terms of hit points per 50 moves. So 5/50
medline would be one hit point regenerated per every 10 moves. The following
classes of medical lining are available directly at Sacre Base:

      STD. MEDLINE: 1/50  (1 hit regenerated per 50 moves)
      ADV. MEDLINE: 5/50  (1 hit regenerated per 10 moves)

* LAPTOP

      The GS-224 laptop was specially designed to assist adventurers out in
the wasteland. It is capable of performing a variety of useful function. The
basic Laptop come pre-configured with only the essential commands. To add new
programs to your laptop, you will have to purchase or otherwise obtain "ROM
Cartridges". ROM Cartridges may be copied with the laptop's "COPY" command.

      We highly suggest purchasing the Laptop and the following ROMs as soon
as it is convenient for you:

      NOTES:    Keeps an online notebook of the locations of important places
                that you visit.

      CSTATS:   Extremely handy. Displays useful information about your
                weapons, armor, and other combat statistics. Can be used to
                scan your inventory to find out which weapons are better
                than others.

      DIET:     An automatic diet maintenance program. No more worrying about
                when to each rations.

      APPRAISE: Displays the relative costs of items in your inventory. Costs
                displayed are the "new purchase price" and the price paid by
                Sacre Base may be significantly less. The APPRAISE ROM is
                nevertheless a useful tool in determining what items are
                valuable and what is not.

      For more information about the Laptop and it's ROMs, we suggest you
visit the Sacre Base Tavern. There is usually someone there who can be of
assistance.

Section 2.1: The Map and Terrain System
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

       The "world" in LOD is composed of a series of interconnected maps.
One map, termed the "main" map, represents the ground level of the earth.
This is the map in which most travel and exploration takes place. Almost all
of the other maps are linked in some way or another to the main map.

       The main map is usually 125x125 squares in size. Each square
represents some arbitrary measurement of land. A square could represent an
acre, a square mile, or virtually anything that the imagination allows.
Travel is usually performed by moving in a compass direction (N/S/E/W) from
one square on the map to another.

       Each map square has a particular type of terrain associated with it.
Common terrain types include "roads", "plains", "forrest", and "mountains".
Some terrain types, such as plainse, can be traversed easilly and with no
special equipment. Others, such as rivers and lakes, require special devices
(such as a miniraft) to cross them. There are also impassible terrain types,
such as impassible mountains and dense forrests that cannot be traversed
no matter what equipment the player carries.

       Due to the visibility limitations of humans, only a small window of
the map is displayed at one time. This window is approximately 5 squares
by 5 squares in size, although it can be configured to 3x3 if modem speed
is a problem. The player is always located in the center of the 5x5 window,
and the window will move automatically with the player. There are several
different map display modes available:

SVGA: (graphics mode)

       SVGA graphics are the preferred method, assuming that your equipment
supports the graphics and you have properly configured the software. SVGA
is always available on the sysop-side (host) of the connection if the sysop
desires. However, use on the remote side (user) requires using the GTERM
terminal program. (more on this later)

       With SVGA, you will see a small "picture" of each terrain type in the
5x5 map window. This is by far the best and easiest to navigate. Certain
terrain types, such as walls and roads will be automatically "connected" to
make following them easier.

ENHANCED ANSI: (text mode)

       With enhanced ansi, the map display will be held permanently in place
at the top of the screen. Graphics will update as you move, but the screen
generally does not "scroll" down. It's the preferred mode for those who do
not use SVGA. Enhanced ansi is available in 5x5 or 3x3 configurations.

STANDARD TEXT: (text mode)

       This is the most primitive and least-desirable display method. It is
limited to a 3x3 grid. A new map is drawn every time you move and the
whole mess scrolls down the screen. However, if for some reason you support
neither the SVGA or ANSI modes, you can always fall back to this one.

Section 2.2: Text Symbols
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

       If you use either the ENHANCED ANSI or STANDARD display modes (ie
anything but SVGA), then you will have to contend with the text map symbols.
The text symbols are meant to be symbolic representations of the type of
terrain that is present. Each text symbol is two characters in size.

       If ANSI is supported, then the text symbols are also colored. These
colors have been chosen to make things a bit clearer. For example, green
is used to represent plains and blue is used to represent water. YELLOW is
almost always used to represent enter-able locations such as cities, stores,
etc.

       The best way to learn the symbols is to just move around the map. The
name current terrain that you are standing is always displayed next to the
scanner. Pretty soon you'll learn em all!

 Plains         --   Wide, open grasslands; Usually quite safe.
 Impass. Mtn    MM   Impassable mountains. No way to get around em!
 Desert         ..   Hot temps and dust storms make travelling dangerous.
 Mountains      mm   Low mountains; Easily climbable, but not too safe.
 Road           ||   Pre-war highways - monsters usually stay clear.
 Wasteland      ww   Areas severely damaged by nuclear radiation - stay clear!
 River          ~~   Flowing water - can be crossed if you have a raft.
 Swamp          ""   Swamps - very unsafe.
 Rad-zone       rr   Direct nuclear strike. Very, very hazardous
 Forest         ff   Thick, woody forests - UNPASSABLE!
 Hut            HT   Small huts occupied by rural dwellers
 Towns          xx   (xx is a number) sends you to a new town map
 Red Pylon      /\   Several located, but their function is unknown.
 Green Pylon    /\   Several located, but their function is unknown.
 Store          ST   A generic city store
 Wasteland Exit WL   An exit from a city into the wastelands
 Bank           $$   Good place to transfer funds
 Hort. Center   HS   True nature unknown; Rumored to exist.
 Phaser Cache   PC   True nature unknown; Rumored to exist.
 Clone Center   CC   True nature unknown; Rumored to exist.
 Nuclear Silo   NS   True nature unknown; Rumored to exist.
 EEEE           EE   True nature unknown; Rumored to exist.
 Kill, Inc      KI   True nature unknown; Rumored to exist.
 Comm Tower     CT   True nature unknown; Rumored to exist.

Section 2.3: Dealing with Towns
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

       You'll encounter several towns, villages, and cities in the
wastelands. To enter a town, you'll need to use the "G" key when you're on
the proper map square. "G" stands for "Go".

       Some towns require something special to be done before you can enter.
Usually they'll tell you what this is, but sometimes they can be somewhat
vague. If you get stuck trying to get into a particular town, then you may
wish to post a message asking for help. Usually someone else in the game
has already figured it out.

       When you enter a town, you'll switch to the town map. The town map
is presented at a somewhat different scale -- rather than map squares being
an acre or square mile, in towns they represent a much smaller size, perhaps
a square yard.

       Towns typically have roads that lead from the entrance to various
places of interest. Civilian dwellings and unimportant locations have
typically been "left out" of the town maps - only important locations such
as stores, banks, taverns, etc are presented. Mots twon maps are small and
the typical player should be able to fully explore them pretty quickly.

       Some towns, such as Sacre Base, will charge high-level players rent
for staying within. If this rent is not paid on-time, then access to the
city may be refused. The rent account may always be paid at any bank in any
city.

       Although much of the previous civilization was destroyed by the great
nuclear war, one custom has survived: Tax Collection. For some unknown
reason, the political leaders of each of the wastelands towns have all agreed
to charge high level players taxes. These taxes will be re-distributed
nightly to all players. Redistributed taxes are dumped in the "standard
account" any may be retrieved by visiting any city bank.

Section 2.4: Things you'll find in towns
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

       Towns include all sorts of exciting places. Sacre base itself has
many locations to enter. You are encouraged to visit them all and learn what
they are about. Some of the more generic entities that are available in
most cities are discussed below. (ANSI users remember: G)o-able locations
are almose always represented by yellow colored symbols)

* TAVERN: (ansi "TV")

       Most, if not all, of the towns have taverns in them. Taverns are the
local hangouts for the prominent town citizens. Most taverns will welcome you
openly and most citizens will talk freely about themselves. The first thing
you should do when you enter a new town is to thoroughly question everyone
in the taverns.

       When talking to a character, the character will respond to various
"hot words" - for instance, asking someone about "JOB" or "NAME" will usually
yield a response with the appropriate information. These hot words are
hilighted in RED for ansi users or capitolized in all-caps for non-ansi
users.

* STORE: (ansi "ST")

       Towns almost always have stores in them where the local merchants and
traders have items for sale. These stores can be a great source of equipment
that is not available at Sacre Base.

* TROOP QUARTERS: (ansi "TQ")

       Every town has a troop quarters. The troop quarters is sort of a
catch-all for utility functions that you may need to perform. For example,
viewing the log or the rankings and adjusting your ANSI options.

* BANKS: (ansi "$$")

       Every society has them - the bankers and tax collectors. Even after
a total collapse of government, these instituations still reamin functional.
Banks have several functions available, such as savings account and low-
interest loans. The "rent" account can also be paid here.

Section 2.5: Other Map Notes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

       The map is full of unusual places to discover and explore. Always
proceed with caution, but don't be afraid to try new places.

       Large specialty stores have been known to exist directly on the main
map. Commonly known ones are the EEEE which sells advanced weapons and
ACME Weapons which boasts a full-time weaponsmith and technician available
for custom weapon modifications. There is a horticulture center out there
somewhere that deals exclusively with advanced food products.

       A transportion network of pylons is out there. Pylons are not very
well understood and little documentation exists on them. The only facts are
that they commonly require a "keycard" of some sort and usually have a
sequence of buttons that must be pressed in the correct order to select a
destination point.

       Beware of objects that are scattered about. Sometimes extremely
dangerous mines may be encountered. These mines will appear exactly as normal
objects to your scanners and to the naked eye. It's only when you get close
to them that they will detonate and make a serious mess of you!

       You may encounter fortresses at certain locations. Fortresses can be
thought of as sort of miniature cities. Most do posess stores that items
may be purchased from. As opposed to cities, fortresses do not posess their
own maps - they are navigated by means of a series of menus. Fortresses are
usually heavilly defended with advanced weapons, moats, and defense shields.
Some fortresses even have "toll booths" and "prox sensors" that will firing
on passing travellers!

Section 2.6: Map system commands
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

       The map system (also termed the "wastelands menu") has several command
options that are available:

      North...: N or 8     Pick Up Item: P     Enter.........: G
      South...: S or 2     Drop Item...: D     Camp out here.: A
      East....: E or 6     Check Status: C     Construct fort: F
      West....: W or 6     Equip.......: Q     Enter Fort....: I
      Look....: L or 5     Use Item....: U     Inv Maint.....: M
      Kill Obj: K          Quick Heal..: Y     B.A.D. Spell..: B

      Most of those commands are self-explanatory, but a few of them deserve
some special attention:

      ENTER (g)

        The enter command will not only get you into towns, but other
        locations as well - fortresses, camps, special places, pylons,
        whatever. When in doubt about a new location, you might as well try
        to enter it.

      KILL OBJ (k)

        This command will allow you to permanently "kill" an object on the
        wasteland. For example, if there is a "dagger" laying in front of
        sacre base and it has been annoying you, you can kill it.

      EQUIP (e)

        You need to use this one to equip your weapons, armor, etc.

      USE ITEM (u)

        This is one of the most important commands in the game. Certain
        items that you are carrying must be U)sed in order to activate
        them. For example, U)sing a medkit will heal your character.

        If you select the "list" option from the U)se prompt, the game will
        present a listing of the usable items that you are carrying. Non-
        usable items will not be listed. This is a quick and easy way to
        figure out which items are use-able.

        Alternatively to typing the number of the object in your inventory
        to use, you can also type the first few letters of the item name.
        For example, you could type "MED" to use a medkit, or "TRI" to
        use a tricorder.

      QUICK HEAL (y)

        Rather than use the USE (u) command multiple times on a medkit to
        heal yourself, you can use the Y command to automatically use as
        many medkit doses as are necessary to heal you.

      PICK UP (p)

        There is a special power-user option for those of you carrying
        energy cells (Vortex cell, kralox cell, etc). If you type the
        word "cell" at the item number prompt, then LOD will automatically
        pick up all ammo at the current location and charge your energy
        cell with it.

      "ALL"

        On the Kill obj (K), Pick Up (P), and Drop (D) commands, you can
        say "ALL" when prompted for an item number and LOD will attempt the
        command on all available items.

Section 3.1: The Basics of Combat
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

       Combat is a fact of life -- the wastelands are not a safe place. This
chapter has been assembled to briefly explain the most popular combat styles
and tactics. Those who do not posess a thorough understanding of the aspects
of modern combat tactics will not survive long.

       Under most circumstances you encounter, combat will occur in two
distinct phases: Long Range and Close Combat. Understanding the different
aspects of these two phases is essential to your success.

       LONG RANGE COMBAT occurs when the participants are at a significant
distance. Several options are available at this phase, the most common of
which are firing a ranged weapon or throwing a radiation grenade at the
enemy. In most cases once one of these options is executed, combat will
proceed to the close combat phase.

       CLOSE COMBAT occurs when the opponents are engaged in a hand-to-hand
situation. Either the fist is used to strike blows or (perferably) a bladed
weapon is used. Close combat continues until one of the participants is
either killed, escapes, or surrenders.

       Now that you understand the basic foundations of combat, you may be
wondering, against whom are you to use your newfound skills? Have no fear,
the wastelands are filled with plenty of opportunities for you to kill
something!

       The most common combat advesary is the monster. "Monster" is a generic
term meaning any intrinsicly hostile creature that habits the wasteland. The
wasteland is full of such individuals. They range from mindless animals such
as the Rad-Hound, to such complex entities as the Priesthood of Loki of whom
posess the power to levitate and the weapondry to incinerate a recruit before
he even knows what happened. Monster encounters generally occur at random -
You'll be walking along and something will just jump out right in front of
you!

       You may also find that at times there may be another inhabitant of
Sacre Base with whom you disagree. Or perhaps someone who's been showing off
some nice weapon or equipment. While it is generally discouraged to go around
"offing" other adventurers, it does happen quite frequently. Please note that
all combat within Sacre Base is strictly prohibited. If you want to kill
somebody, you'll need to find them unprotected in the wastelands. They may
either be camped or holed up inside a fortress. If the latter is the case,
then you will need to infiltrate the fortress in order to reach your
prey.

       Throughout the wastelands, you will notice occasional fortresses
constructed to protect the owner and his valuables from outside dangers.
These fortresses may be conquered, but the process of taking a fortress may
be long and arduous. It may even require a team of warriors to drain the
fort's defenses to the point that they may be breached. Taking a fortress
does produce great rewards -- if you don't want to keep the fortress for
yourself, then you may easilly sell it's equipment for a health profit.

Section 3.2: Ranged Weapons
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

       Long range combat necessitates the existance of long range weapons.
The typical long range weapon contains a sighting system which is fixed
upon the target and then a trigger is depressed which will consequently
fire a projectile of some sort at target.

       The type of projectile and means of propulsion depend on the type of
weapon that is used. For example, a crossbow uses a wire and tension system
to launch a crossbow bolt. A 9mm clip pistol uses an exothermic gunpowder
reaction to propell a bullet at a high velocity. More advanced weapons,
termed "energy weapons" use energy of some means to send forth a stream of
sub-atomic particles (photons, neutrons, and gravitons are commonly used).

       Most LR weapons are capable of launching only one projectile at a
time. However, technologies such as the "three round burst" and "grenade
launched" are also available which provide the user with additional
technologies. We recommend contacting the weaponsmith at ACME weapons for
more information on these advanced subjects.

       The amount of damage done by a long range weapon is determined solely
by the characteristic properties of the device. The user's attributes have
no effect on the extent of the damage inflicted. The accuracy, however, does
depend significantly on the ratio of the dexterity of the user as compared
to the agility of the target. A higher user dexterity will increase
accuracy. A higher target agility will decrease accuracy.

       The other commonly used offensive technique is the throwing of a
radiation grenade in the direction of an enemy. As with conventional weapons,
the damage inflicted is solely dependant on the characteristics of the
grenade. However, due to the large blast radius of a grenade, accuracy is
100% guarenteed.

Section 3.3: Close Combat Weapons
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

       Close combat weapons (also referred to as "short range weapons" or
"SR" weapons) are used in close combat. This type of weapon is not required
(the user may inflict blows directly with his fist), but is highly
recommended due to the increase in damage inflicted by a bladed weapon.

       Close combat weapons are almost always bladed devices of some sort.
Contrary to ranged weapons, no projectile is fired. Damage is inflicted by
physically striking the target with the weapon.

       Close combat weapons are not necessarilly restricted solely to simple
bladed instruments such as knives or swords. The blade may be charged with
energy which will inflict a superior amount of damage when it comes into
contact with the target. These types of weapons are referred to as "energy
weapons". Many techniques exist for charging energy weapons. The most common
energy weapons are the ElectoBlade, ElectroSword, and ElectroLance. They are
the energy weapon version of the Dagger, Sword, and Razorlance respectively.

       The damage inflicted by close combat weapons is proportional not only
to the characteristic properties of the weapon itself, but also the strength
of the user. Is a general rule, as the strength of the user doubles, the
damage infliction will increase by approximately 30%.

       As with ranged weapons, accuracy of close combat weapons depends on
the user's dexterity in relation to the target's agility. A high dexterity
will produce superior accuracy, while a high agility of the target will
degrade accuracy.

Section 3.4: Procurement of Weapons
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

       Several popular LR and SR weapons are stocked at the stores in Sacre
Base. It is highly recommended that you stop by these stores and obtain
weapons before proceeding into the wasteland.

       NOTE: The damage levels listed in the SR weapons store are the basic
damage levels of the weapon. Remember, SR (short range or close combat)
weapons perform increased damage if the user has increased strength. Thus, if
your strength is above average, then the damage done will be greater than the
base levels listed in the SR weapons store.

       IMPORTANT: You must Q)-Equip your weapons before they will be enabled
in combat. Simply carrying around a weapon in your inventory will not do - it
must be equipped. To equip a weapon, press "Q" from the wastelands menu. Then
select the appropriate choice (C for Close or R for Ranged) and select the
desired weapon from your inventory.

       Weapons may also be obtained from wasteland inhabitants. Occasionally,
you may encounter a creature that has a particularly desirable weapon. There
are two common ways of obtaining a weapon from the monster. The least risky
is to purchase the weapon. Most, but not all, monsters will readilly sell
their weapon for a reasonable sum of money. The other common method is to
kill the monster and pick up the weapon when he drops it upon the wasteland.

       The GS-224 Laptop and C-Stats ROM can prove useful in determining
various properties of weapons. It is recommended that you pick up a laptop
and C-Stats at your earliest convenience from the computer store in sacre
base. C-Stats will report the base damage levels, ammunition requirements,
strength multiplier, and any special features of your weapons.

Section 3.5: Ammunition
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

       Some weapons require ammunition. The best way to discover what
ammunition a weapon requires is to view it's description with the V)iew
command at store. You can also use a laptop equipped with the C-Stats rom
to determine the ammunition requirements.

       If you use a weapon that requires ammunition, then you must carry
around one or more ammunition pack(s) in your inventory. These packs will
automatically be used to supply the weapon with energy. You do not need
to explicitly "load" weapon; just keep an ammo pack in your inventory and it
will be done automatically.

       A chart of common weapons and ammunition types follows. This chart is
not exhaustive and many weapons and ammunition types not listed may be
located on various wasteland inhabitants.

Type 1: Crossbow Bolts     SR: None
                           LR: Crossbow

Type 2: 9mm clip           SR: None
                           LR: Clip Pistol, Uzi 9mm

Type 3: Power Pack         SR: Electroblade, Electrosword, Electrolance
                           LR: Phaser-1,2,3 Comp Blaster

Type 4: Grav Pack          SR: None known
                           LR: GravBlaster

Type 5: Plasma Pack        SR: None known
                           LR: PlasmaBlaster

Type 6: Neutron Pack       SR: Neutron Sabre
                           LR: Neutron Rifle

       Reports of another type of energy, termed the "cell", have been heard
from adventurers returning from the wastelands. Cells appear to be capable of
storing energy in a generic format, and supplying whatever energy your
particular weapons require. Hence, a cell may be capable of supplying both
power pack energy to an electroblade, as well as gravitons to a gravblaster.
Cells only work on "energy" type weapons. They cannot supply 9mm bullets or
crossbow bolts for example.

Section 3.6: Shields and the Aux Weapon
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

       In addition to equipping a close weapon, there is an additional slot
in which you may equip an auxilliary weapon or a shield. This slot is
referred to as the "aux weapon" slot. Typically, the item in this slot is
carried in the fighter's left hand, while the primary close weapon is carried
in the right hand.

       If a close range weapon is equipped into the aux weapon slot, then you
may switch weapons with the "E" command in the close combat menu. This is
useful in case you have an ammo-requiring close combat weapon equipped and
the weapon runs out of ammo. If you have a non-ammo-requiring weapon in the
aux weapon slot, then you may use the "E" command to switch between them.

       If a shield is equipped in the aux weapon slot, then you will gain
some additional defensive capabilities. There is a percentage chance that the
enemy's attack will impact your shield rather than your armor or body. In
this capacity, the shield acts as sort of an armor suppliment. You may also
P)arry the enemy if a shield is equipped.

       Using the P)arry option in close combat increases the odds of your
sheild deflecting a blow by 400%. However, you will inflict no damage while
parrying. Parrying may be of use in a situation where a player may wish to
cause the enemy to expend his ammunition reserves. Once the opponent's
ammunition falls critically low, the player would cease parrying and begin
normal attacks against the enemy, who now has a depleted ammo supply.

Section 3.7: Armor
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

       Armor can be very beneficial to combat. In the case that an enemy's
blow comes in contact with your person, then there is a percentage chance
that your armor may absorb this blow, thus protecting your precious hit
points. Many armor types are available. There are two basic properties of
armor which are of interest: the deflection percent, and the deflection
point capacity.

       Deflection Percent is the percentage chance that your armor will
absorb a blow that would normally hit your body. For example, if your armor
had 50% deflection, then you could expect roughly half of the blows to impact
the armor and half to impact you directly.

       Damage point capacity is the number of points of damage that the
armor has remaining before it is useless. Each time your armor is hit, it
will lose some of these points. When they reach zero, your armor will no
longer deflect blows at all.

       Some armor types may be recharged when their deflection points are
below maximum. The device use to recharge them is usually referred to as a
"recharger". Rechargers are expensive and difficult to obtain, but you may
happen across one in your travels.

       The C-Stats ROM can be used to determine the various properties of
your armor. The GS-224 Laptop and the C-Stats ROM may be purchased at the
Sacre Base computer store.

Section 3.8: Long Range Combat in Depth
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

LONG RANGE COMBAT: "L"
       This simply fires your ranged weapon at the enemy. You must have a
ranged weapon equipped to use this option. If the weapon requires ammunition,
then you will need to have some ammo in your inventory.

CLOSE COMBAT (hand-to-hand): "H"
       This will bypass your long range combat options and proceed directly
to close (hand-to-hand) combat.

THROW GRENADE: "G"
       You throw a radiation grenade in the direction of the enemy. Grenade
hits are guarenteed 100% due to the increased blast size. After the grenade
has detonated, close combat will automatically enagage.

RUN: "R"
       You attempt to use the age old strategy of running away. If your enemy
has no ranged weapons, he will probably let you go. But, if the enemy does
have a ranged weapon, he may try to take a shot at you.

SURRENDER: "S"
       Give him half of your money and he'll probably let you go.

VIEW OPPONENT: "V"
       Display your opponent's stats.

VIEW CHARACTER: "C"
       Display your current stats.

STRIKE UP CONVERSATION: "T"
       For some monsters that look somewhat talkative, this option will
appear and you can talk to the monster. Odds are you can't talk him out of
killing you, but you may be able to gain some vital information from the
monster.

BUY ITEM
       Sometimes, you'll notice that a particular enemy has an item that
would be of value to you. Rather than fight for it, you may opt for the more
civilized approach of buying the item. However, monsters are not usually as
generous as the Sacre Base supply station and their prices may be quite high!

Section 3.9: Close Combat in Depth
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

ATTACK: "A"
       Charge at the monster with your weapon; Inflict as much damage as
possible while protecting yourself from injury.

BERSERK: "B"
       Commit yourself to fighting until death. No aborting! You'll receive a
minimal (about 10%) combat advantage when berserking, but you lose all chance
of stopping in case you begin to lose!

SURRENDER: "S"
       Give him some money and hope he goes away.

RUN: "R"
       Try to run away. Your chances of successfully running depend on your
agility in relation to your opponents dexterity. Monsters equipped with LR
weapons may shoot you in the back while you're running.

VIEW OPPONENT: "V"
       Display your opponent's stats.

VIEW CHARACTER: "C"
       Display your current stats.

WARP: "W"
       If you are carrying a warper, you can push it's button and get out of
combat fast!

MORE: "M"
       There's two combat menus - this toggles between them.

EXCHANGE: "E"
       Exchange your primary weapon with your auxiliary weapon. Usefull if
your primary weapon runs out of ammunition. This option may not be used if
you have a shield equipped in your auxilliary weapon slot.

HEAL: "H"
       Use a medkit dose. Your odds of successfully using a medkit dose depend
on your agility as opposed to your opponents dexterity.

DEATHPULSE: "D"
       If your weapon has the special "deathpulse" feature, then you use this
option to attack in deathpulse mode. Deathpulse conversions are available
from ACME Weapons, Inc.

OPPONENT-CSTATS: "O"
       If you have a laptop with the C-Stats ROM loaded on it, then you may
use this command to get a C-Stats report of your enemy. The C-Stats report
may be useful to determine if your enemy has nay special features on his
weapons and/or armor that won't show up in the "V)iew Opponent" command.

PARRY: "P"
       If you have a shield equipped in your aux weapon slot, then you can
parry against the opponent. Parrying consists of attempting to block the
attack using your shield. Parrying inflicts no damage on the enemy, but it
increases the odds of your shield deflecting a blow by 400%. Since parrying
inflicts no damage, it is of questionable tactical value.

FLASH
       If you are carrying a FlashBomb, then you can throw it at the enemy
to improve the odds of escape.

Section 3.10: Locating Other Human Warriors to Fight
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

       As mentioned previously, you may find yourself in a position where
you wish to fight another human warrior. This can sometimes be a difficult
process, as most persons are reasonably skilled at protecting their
location from possible attackers. However, in the event you do wish to
fight another human, these are the steps that should be taken:

       1) Enter Sacre Base and thoroughly check out the Sacre Base map. Look
and see if your target has camped inside Sacre Base. If he has, then you
will, of course, be unable to attack him. You might write him a message
letting him know how much of a coward he is for hiding out in Sacre Base.

       2) Exit Sacre Base and look around the immediate area. Perhaps your
target didn't make it back into Sacre Base before running out of time. Or
perhaps he just didn't know any better.

       3) If you have a scanner device or a LR-Scan, then you might want
to give it a shot. Both of these devices are capable of detecting players
at medium-long ranges. If you posess a tricorder, then it may be of great
use as well.

       4) If you happen across a fortress, then your target may be within.
Use the G)o command to visit the fortress and use V)iew to get a look at
it. If the owner listed is your target or one of his teammates, then your
target may reside within. In this case, your only chance of knowing for
sure is to attack the fortress and conquer it.

       5) If your you happen across a city, then your target may be camped
within it. Explore the city and find out. Unlike Sacre Base, not all cities
have a "no combat" restriction. If you find your target in the Death Warrior
HQ, for example, then the Death Warriors will probably be more than happy
to watch you battle to the death.

       6) Explore the wastelands, repeating steps 2 through 5 until you
find him or get tired of looking.

       7) You can always write your target a message telling him you want
to fight. If he's courageous enough, then he'll probably write you a message
with a pre-determined location to fight. If he refuses, make it publicly
known that he has chickened out. Usually someone will come forth to defend
his honor.

       There are a few special things to take into consideration when
fighting another human. This type of combat is generally referred to as
"player-vs-player" combat. Firstly and most importantly is the experience is
calculated differently.

       When you defeat another player, experience is rewarded according
to the following: "The surplus of the loser's experience over the winners
experience, plus 10% of the losers total experience." Mathematically, this
could be written as the following:

       EXP gained = Max(0,loser_exp-winner_exp) + loser_exp*0.10

       For example, say you have 10,000 exp and you kill someone who has
15,000 exp. In this case, you have attacked a player with GREATER experience
than yourself. The math works out as follows:

       Max(0,15000-10000) + 15000*0.10    { initial formula }
       Max(0,5000) + 1500                 { ... simplify }
       5000+1500                          { ... simplify }
       6500                               { the answer }

       Now, let's look at an example of attacking a player with lesser
experience. Let's assume you have 15,000 EXP and you attack someone with
10,000 EXP. The math works out as follows:

       Max(0,10000-15000) + 10000*0.10    { initial formula }
       Max(0,-5000) + 1000                { ... simplify }
       0+1000                             { ... simplify }
       1000                               { the answer }

       As you can see, you are rewarded greatly for attacking someone who
is more experienced than you. However, the rewards are fairly poor for
attacking someone who is lesser than you. This is purposely done to
discourage humongous players from attacking novices, and to prevent a few
certain "cheats" that have been used in the past.

Section 4.1: Fortresses
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

      Fortresses may be constructed by the prosperous adventurer. There are
  several reasons a fortress is useful and several purposes a fortress can
  serve:

      A PLACE TO HIDE OUT
          The wasteland isn't a very nice place. Hiding out in your fortress
          can be a great defence against monsters and "competitive" players.

      STORAGE VAULT
          Every fortress includes a storage vault. You can drop off as many
          objects as you like. As long as your fortress remains intact, your
          valuables are safe.

      SELLING MEDKITS/AMMO and ITEMS
          You can designate portions of your medical doses on hand and/or
          energy on hand to be "for sale". Players may then visit your
          fortress and purchase medkits/ammo for the price that you decide.

          If you pick a good location and set your prices right, players
          may opt to shop your at your fortress rather than a pricey
          town. If your fort is equipped with an energy-producing reactor,
          then you can make a healthy profit selling energy!

          All forts are equipped with a "sales counter" capable of holding
          any eight standard devices. You decide what to sell and what
          price to sell it at. Someone in dire need of a Warper may pay
          you a healthy price for one!

          It should be noted that when trading, other players are held outside
          the gates of your fortress. They aren't allowed access to your
          vault, treasury, etc.

      AVOID RENT
          If you are a level eight player or above, then you have probably
          already realized that if you stay in any of the towns, you will be
          charged rent. And this rent does get expensive.

          So, the solution - build your own base and stay in there. It's
          safer than hanging out on the wastelands and you don't have to
          shell out the cash to pay rent every day.

      FACTORIES
          You can install factories in your fort for producing a variety
          of items such as mines. A factory produces one item per night and
          can pay for itself very quickly!

      SCAVENGERS
          A special "scavenger droid" has been developed especially for
          fortress use. Each night, the scavenger droid will venture outside
          your fortress and locate any "junk" laying around. The scavenger
          droid will sell these items as salvage at 10% of full price!

      All that sounds pretty nice, doesn't it? Well, it sounds nice to just
  about everyone else as well. So the point is, you'd better protect your
  fortress pretty well or somebody uninvited will move in! (and move you
  out!) Fortress defensive options:

      MOAT
          You can dig a moat around your fortress. When somebody wants to
          attack, they'll have to get through it. Several different moats
          are available - from simple water with a crocodile to flesh-
          dissolving acid!

      DEFENSE FIELD
          Every fortress should purchase a defense field immediately. The
          defense field is essentially the fortress's "hit points". When
          an attacker defeats the defense field, he is inside. Defense fields
          recharge before battle from the fortress's energy stores.

          Also, do note that if your base runs out of energy, then there will
          be nothing to recharge your defense field if you are attacked.

      WEAPON
          So what happens while somebody is hacking away at your defense
          field? You have a big gun that shoots at him. The better the
          fortress weapon, the more damage will be inflicted as the attacker
          attempts to beat the defense field.

      REACTOR
          All this stuff takes power. Your defense field requires energy
          to recharge, your base weapon requires energy to fire, etc. So you
          might want to have a reactor to build up your daily energy
          supply.

      MINE SPREADER
          These nifty items will take any mines from your forts storage room
          and scatter them around your fortress in a random manner. Very
          useful for automatically creating mine fields.

      PROX SENSORS
          Proximity sensors - Your fort is equipped with a weapon, right?
          Well, why not blast everyone who walks by!!! The Prox sensor will
          let you set your fortress weapon to attack all players who come
          within a pre-determined distance of your fort.

      TOLL STATIONS
          Prox sensors are nice, but there isn't much profit in just blasting
          people. How about charging them a "toll" fee. If they pay, they
          can continue unharmed. If not..... BLAM!

      FORTRESS SFG (Stealth Field Generator)
          Hides your fortress from the view of adjacent map cells. The only
          way someone can see your fortress is by practically standing right
          on top of it!

      ROBO-DEFENDER
          RoboDefenders protect your fort if the defense field falls. They
          are basically just a robot programmed to defend your fortress at
          all costs.

      Now, the most important thing you have to worry about is supplying your
  base with energy. Without energy, your base defense field cannot charge and
  your weapon cannot fire. So, how do you get energy?

       METHOD #1:
          Buy, steal, or otherwise "acquire" ammunition packs. Take the ammo
          packs into your fortress configuration room and discharge them
          into the fortress power banks.

          Any type of energy-based ammunition will do - Power Packs, Grav
          Packs, etc. But the projectile-ammo is useless (how would you
          discharge some crossbow bolts???)

       METHOD #2:
          Buy a reactor (described above) and it will generate a generous
          amount of energy each day.

      Note: You will want to make sure you place a lot of energy in your
  fortress when you create it -- There is a tactic becoming increasingly
  popular where players will lay siege to a fort by repeatedly attacking
  it and running from it, thus draining the fortresses energy reserves
  and making it vulnerable to attack!

Section 4.2: Fortress Trading
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

      As mentioned above, trading is possible with fortresses. By using the
  FORTRESS TRADE CONTROL menu, you can set various options about what you
  wish to buy or sell. Here are some quick hints:

      SELLING HEALING (MEDKIT) DOSES
          First you'll have to "dump" a medkit into your fortress medkit
          supply. You can do this from the fortress configuration menu. Then
          go back to the fortress trading menu and you can decide how much of
          your medkit stocks you wish to put up for sale and how much you
          wish to charge per dosage.

      SELLING ENERGY (Power Packs)
          Like with medkits, go into the fortress configuration menu and
          dump some energy into the fortress energy banks (unless you already
          have a plentiful supply of energy in the banks). Then go back
          to the fortress trade menu and select how much energy you wish to
          sell and at what price. Don't sell all your energy, because you
          would leave your base defenseless.

      BUYING/SELLING THE THREE PRODUCTS (minerals, herbs, fuel)
          Not fully implemented yet. Feel free to experiment with the options.

      THE SALES COUNTER
          Each base has a sales counter. The base owner may place up to eight
          items in this sales counter. Other players may then come and buy
          them from the base.

      SELLING TELEPORTATION
          If you equip your base with a teleporter, then you can charge other
          players to use your teleporter. You will receive money both when
          players depart from and arrive to your base. (Note: You may wish
          to use the "List with traders union" so people know where your
          base is)

Appendix 1: Common Close Combat Weapons
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

KNIFE
      This is pretty lame. Sort of a cross between a butter knife and a steak
  knife, it doesn't inflict much damage. However, if you're on a budget, it
  is better than nothing.

DAGGER
      Basically, the Knife designed specifically for combat use.

SWORD
      If you don't know what a sword is, go back to grade school....

RAZORLANCE
      The lance is a special variation of a spear. It has razor sharp blades
  on both ends. The user usually holds the lance from the middle and can twirl
  it in many directions, hitting the attacker with the blades mounted on each
  end.

ELECTROBLADE
      The electroblade is a dagger that has been electrically charged. It
  gets it's power from a POWER PACK and when the target is struck, the
  electrical charge dissipates into them, doing enhanced damage. This weapon
  does require ammo (POWER PACKS) and will do reduced damage without them.

ELECTROSWORD
      The electrosword is an electrically charged version of the sword. Like
  the electroblade, it require POWER PACK ammo to function.

ELECTROLANCE
      The electrolance is the electrically charged companion of the razor
  lance. When properly loaded with a power pack, it can do massive amounts of
  damage.

NEUTRON SABRE
      A recent experimental prototype using Neutron technology. The Neutron
  sabre is a sword-type weapon that uses neutron energy to charge its
  blade. Produces an intense burning effect on whatever it hits. Uses
  NEUTRON PACKs as armor.

Appendix 2: Common Ranged Weapons
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

CROSSBOW
      A purely manually operated weapon. The operator pulls back the string,
  sets in a crossbow bolt, aims and fires. It requires crossbow bolts for
  ammunition.

CLIP PISTOL
      A 9mm clip pistol. You slap a clip in, take aim, and blast a hole in
  your enemy. Uses 9mm clips for ammo.

PHASER-1
      A hand held phaser weapon. Sends a charged proton beam into the enemy.
  Requires power packs for ammo.

PHASER-2
      More powerful version of phaser-1.

PHASER-3
      More powerful version of phaser-2.

COMP BLASTER
      The most powerful power-pack weapon built. Similar to a phaser, but
  uses higher efficiency circuitry to achieve a stronger effect.

GRAVBLASTER
      This weapon sends a beam of gravitons against the target. The gravitons
  create an immense gravitational disruption in the target's cells, causing
  the gravitational forces to rip his cell structure apart. Uses gravblast
  clips.

PLASMABLASTER
      Sends plasma energy into the enemy. Uses plasma clips for ammo.

NEUTRON RIFLE
      Experimental prototype. Uses Neutron packs as ammunition to produce
  massive damage on whatever it hits.

GRENADE PACK
      This is a package of grenades. It is neither a long range nor a close
  range weapon. When you enter combat, you have the choice of throwing a
  grenade at your foe instead of firing a weapon. Grenades have the advantage
  of almost always hitting the opponent and their damage can go right through
  an opponent's armor.

Appendix 3: Misc. Items
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

RADIO
      This two-way field radio can be used to tie into the base's
communications system. You can send and leave messages just as if you were
sitting in the safe comfort of the base.

LR SCAN
      The LR Scan is a very useful device. What it does is tie into the ZR327L
military surveillance satellite and generate a satellite picture of the
surrounding terrain. Very handy if you get yourself lost.

MEDICAL KIT
      The medical kit contains a number of self-contained "healing" drugs.
One quick shot from one of these drugs can do wonders for a person's
injuries. (These wonder drugs were actually created in 1973, but held up
in various government agencies for 70 or so years)

RATIONS
      A package of poorly tasting, but very nourishing troop rations. Mostly
gathered from the remains of dead beasts, it tastes pretty bad, but is
very necessary to your survival.

SCANNER
      This is a hand-help radar scanning unit. It can give you a quick idea
of the type of terrain around you as well as locate prominent establishments
such as towns.

STEALTH FIELD GENERATOR
      The SFG is a unique product of modern technology. It allows you to
create a field around your person which can either interfere positively
(amplify) or negatively (cancel out) the noise that you create. Since many of
the wasteland creatures are dependant upon noise as a means of locating
targets, you can either increase or decrease your encounter chances with this
device.

LAPTOP
      The GS-224 Laptop is a very valuable instrument when equipped with the
necessary programs. You can buy a laptop at sacre base as well as software
for the laptop. I'll leave it to you to discover what the laptop does. (Try
talking to TROY HADLEY at the Sacre Base Tavern)

MINIRAFT
      In case you should need to cross some rivers or lakes, then the
Miniraft may be of some use to you.

Appendix 4: Credits
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------

   SHANE CHAMBERS       ANSI and EGA graphics designer.

   MARK COX             Author of MOD-OBJ, the code that was used to provide
                        .MOD music support to LOD.

   CHRIS AZURE          Composer of most of our MOD music.

   CHRISTOPHER DARQUE   Lots of EGA pictures, some plot ideas, and some
                        great beta testing.

   RICK ARMSTRONG       EGA Pictures

   DAVE ROSSON          EGA Pictures

   DOUG MERHA           EGA Pictures

   RAY BACON            Set up the LAND echo for us!

@@GTERM
Gterm: The LOD EGA Graphic Terminal
-----------------------------------

       In case you aren't using Gterm at this time, then this document is
provided to explain GTERM's benefits, requirements, and capabilities. If
you are using GTERM, then you need not read this file.

GTERM REQUIREMENTS

       First of all, we need to make sure your machine is equipped to run
GTERM. You need:

       VIDEO: SVGA 800x600x256 or above; Minimum of 500k of video memory
       RAM:   about 384k or so
       DISK:  ten megs would give you plenty of room
       MODEM: 2400+ recommended
       CPU:   386 processor required.

WHAT IS GTERM?

       What is Gterm? Well, it is an SVGA graphical terminal for the Land Of
Devastation door game. Basically, it takes the plain ascii/ansi interface
and adds some nice graphics to enhance playing. Instead of seeing little ".."
and "MM" symbols for the wastelands map, you will see 16 color ega pictures
in their place.
       GTERMs graphics basically cover two areas: The map grid and the
inventory display. Is explained above, the map grid will display the map
in full EGA color with none of those bland looking symbols. Similarly, the
inventory display will show you pictures of your inventory rather than
simple text.
       GTERM also includes a few other utilities - a rankings capture, LR
scan capture, and a rankings profile to name a few. These are explained
further in the GTERM documentation.
       It should also be noted that on an 8mhz+ machine, display may be
actually FASTER than the normal text. The graphical interface uses a
binary method to transfer data between LOD and GTERM versus the text method
used by a normal terminal program.

SPECIFIC BENEFITS OF USING GTERM

       1] As stated above, your map display and inventory listings will
          be displayed using EGA pictures rather than text symbols.

       2] Certain ANSI displays used in LOD (i.e. the color menus and such)
          are also stored with GTERM. LOD can "call up" these pictures so
          they will appear instantly rather than having to send all of the
          ANSI data across the modem. For 2400 baud and below users, this
          is a great speed up.

       3] A few miscellaneous utilities - a rankings capture, a rankings
          profile capture, etc.

       4] In many cases, playing using GTERM on a slow modem (i.e. 2400
          or lower) will result in faster game play.

       5] Monster pictures - we have drawn up several nice pictures of the
          monsters which you encounter out in the wastelands. These SVGA
          pictures pop up over the map window to show you our idea of
          what you are fighting.

       6] ADLIB/SOUNDBLASTER support. GTERM supports full MOD music. There
          is quite a large musical score for LOD, composed primarily by
          Chris Azure.

WHAT DOES IT TAKE TO SET UP GTERM?

       Basically, the simplest way to set up GTERM is by installing it as
an "external protocol" to your terminal program. Then, just select that
protocol when you go into LOD and you will be up and running in full EGA
color.

WHERE CAN YOU GET GTERM?

       Most boards that have LOD up for download also have GTERM sitting
around somewhere. If you can't find it or you want the most recent version,
then you may contact the authors bbs at:

       The Not-Yet-Named bbs
       (520) 544-4655  1200/2400/9600  (V.32)
       (520) xxx-xxxx  2400/9600/14400 (USR DUAL) (temporarily down)
@@USERNEW
Whats New!

This file is intended for players and will contain a listing of major
playing differences from previous versions. This is for players who have
played before and want to know what has changed that will effect
them.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

[Version 5.11]

This release was mostly just a bugfix and general update, so there are not
many significant changes to game-play.

Two new games are available in the Casino - Double-Up and Video Poker.

You can now steal from camped players.

[Version 5.00]

This release has some MAJOR changes. The user documentation has been almost
completely rewritten and I suggest you stop by the doc center and give it a
thorough reading.

You'll probably find a few new locations out there, including the much
anticipated Holostore and Sam's Super Surplus Stores.

The "towns" all have seperate town maps now -- there is no "base operations"
menu for the towns anymore. To log off in a town, just enter the town and use
the A)-camp command. If you camp in Sacre Base, then you will be
automatically protected against attacks.

There are a lot more weapons upgrades available at ACME weapons. Some of the
new weapon features may be found on monsters and/or forsale at various
locations as well.

Several new devices and items have been added. Of particular interest is
the Warper Waypoint Manager, Tricorder, and Hypervault. There are also
several new ROM cartridges.

The Casino has some new slot machines and some additional trivia tables.
Playing the slots CAN be very profitable, especially if you find a certain
item that will throw the odds in your favor!

If you die while attacking a fortress, then the fortress will take any
inventory that you drop and place it in the fort's storage room. So, be
CAREFUL while attacking forts!

[Version 4.20]

The major changes for this version is the switch to 800x600x256 SVGA mode
for GTERM and LOD/VGA. Some bugs have also been fixed.

The MAPPER device now has a simple ANSI format so that non-gterm users may
now make some use of it.

ANSI players now have a 5x5 map grid option. You can toggle between 5x5 and
3x3 in the ansi options section of the troop quarters.

[Version 4.10]

There are special new rules for experience in player-vs-player combat. This
ONLY applies to combat with another PLAYER, not to combat with monsters.
Experience is calculated according to the formula:
   Exp_gain = Max(0,Loser_Exp-Winner_Exp) + Loser_exp*0.10
See the "Combat Basics" section of the user docs for more specifics.

[Version 4.00]

For REGISTERED systems ONLY: Find the new ACME weapons store. There are
cool new weapons plus a full-time gunsmith on hand to make some unique new
mods to your existing weapons. [Someone at the Death Warrior HQ may be able
to give directions]

Those in need of the Puritron CPU might find interest in knowing that Loki
has it. This quest is somewhat more involved than previous puritron quests,
so be prepared to think a little more. Seek out one of Loki's High Priests
for an item that might be used to summon Loki himself.

Visit Defs Sacre in the Sacre Base Tavern and inquire about the elementals.
You won't regret it.

Form teams! All stores will now give teams with 2 or more members a 5% team
discount.

The Scanner device has been revised. It is now much more useful and reports
bearings correctly.

Take a look at the laptop commands "help" and (if you have it) "cstats".

I raised the default experience table quite a bit for higher level
characters. People beyond level 8 will notice a difference.

Experience for zone 3 + monsters has been tightened up a bit to slow down
advancement of mega-huge players.

Massive changes to fortresses. Many new items available, expanded trading
potential, etc.

(Default Dataset) Users may only train ("go up a level") at Sacre Base.
Other cities (Freedom City, DWHQ, whatever) just don't have the knowledge,
resources, or the desire to train you.

(Default Dataset) The Sacre Base section has been changed around a bit to
spice things up a little.

(Default Dataset) Terra Labs is now out there.... try to find it and it's
supply of Ultrawarpers, Ultrachargers, and Ultracloaks!

[Version 3.80]

If you die and chose to CREATE a new character rather than restarting
from a saved clone, then your saved clone (if you have one) will be lost
forever.

Mines now have a "warning" feature which can be turned on or off.

EMWarp programs have been shown to occasionally "malfunction" when a mine
goes off!

Kill, Inc may have some new items in stock....

Those having trouble crossing the lava river near Xeboc's lair may wish to
seek the location of the Fang Gang City, Blood Lust. There is someone there
who can provide you with a clue about what to do next.

Talking with the Horticulture Center manager again my provide some insight
into one of the new special quests.

[Version 3.70]

Internal bug fixes & cosmetic upgrades.

A few more people in the taverns....

A new ROM you might be able to find.

When the puritron is found, the wasteland will be "cleansed" of impurities.

Players with fortresses should find many new and interesting items available
at the fortress stores!

The character display has been improved to look a bit better. Users who
prefer the older display may set their preference using the ansi options
menu in the troop quarters.

Fortresses will now let their owners enter without a password requirement.

The final encounter with Xeboc may bit a bit more difficult than you
expected.

Towns now carry specific inventories.

During a storm that lasted several weeks, several lakes were formed onto
the wasteland. (well, how else do you want me to explain this???!!!)

Reports of a few new towns were detected.

The people of Freedom City have just gotten a bit more particular about their
visitors.

@@USERQCK
[QuickStart Docs]

With every game, there are those people who will not take the time to
read the game docs before playing... This file is for them!

GENERAL INFO:

Ok. LOD is your basic RPG. You start out in Sacre Base where you may
buy/sell weapons, talk to people, etc.

You start out with a few thousand bucks, a medkit, and some rations. First
thing you should do is get yourself a weapon. Go to the supply station, then
to the SR (short range) weapons store and buy the best you can afford.

Make sure to EQUIP your new weapon either in the T]roop quarters menu or
once you get to the wasteland.

Then go out into the wasteland and kick some butt. Stay close to Sacre
Base and remember it's location. The "easy" monsters are around the base. If
you stray away too far, you'll start running into the hard monsters.

Once you've gotten enough money to buy some better equipment (or you run out
of medkit applications), head back to sacre base and stock up.

COMBAT:

Combat is played in two stages; Long range when you first see your enemy and
short range when you are in close combat.

If you don't have a LR weapon, then you can't do a whole lot at long range.
Just hit hand to hand and fight closely.

You can "surrender" by giving your opponent half your money (providing you
have a decent amount of money). Or you can "run" in which your odds are
based on your agility.

That's all of the essentials. I encourage you to go and read the complete
user manual. There is some very important information in it.

Scott Baker, Author of LOD.
@@LODWALK
The following is a little walkthrough of a new player. If you are still
fuzzy about how to play LOD, then the following should help you out a little
bit.

Please note, for space-saving reasons, I have played out the game in LOD's
worst graphics mode - for most, people, you will either be using the enhanced
ANSI display or the full EGA graphics display (with GTERM).
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Standby, looking for you...

Look's like you are new here. I'll have to ask a few questions and then you
can be on your way.

What would you like to be called around here?
>Waste-M-All
Waste-M-All, Correct (Y/N) ? y

OK. You're all taken care of now.
You might want to stop by the supply station and pick up some equipment.

News
----
Welcome to version 2.10! Many enhancements for this version. Players will
probably want to go to the documentation menu and have a look at the updates
file.

Remember, the farther you stray from Sacre Base, the worse monsters you will
encounter!


------------------------------------------------------------------------------
This copy registered to : Scott Baker
Please thank your sysop for registering his copy
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

13 new messages are present.

Base Operations
---------------
   [S] Enter the supply station.
   [T] Enter troop quarters.
   [D] Documentation Menu.
   [P] Commodities trading.
   [G] Base Casino.
   [M] Mail Room.
   [U] Puritron Room.
   [C] View your character.
   [W] Enter the wasteland.
   [Q] Exit Game.

Base Operations Selection ]Supply Station
Supply Station
--------------
   [W] Weapons (Short Range).
   [L] Weapons (Long Range).
   [A] Armor.
   [M] Miscellaneous.
   [B] Ammunition
   [E] Computer Store
   [S] Sell something to store
   [C] View your character.
   [Q] Base Operations.

Supply Station Selection ]SR Weapons Store
Short Range Weapons store
-------------------------
   [L] List SR weapons available.
   [B] Purchase a weapon.
   [S] View data on a weapon.
   [C] View your character.
   [Q] Supply Station.

SR Weapons Store Selection ]Buy
Purchase which weapon number (Q=Quit,?=List) ? ?
## Name               Cost     Damage Ammunition Req'd
-- ------------------ -------- ------ ----------------
 1 Knife                   350    1-3 None
 2 Dagger                  500    2-3 None
 3 Sword                  1000    2-5 None
 4 RazorLance             2100    3-7 None
 5 ElectroBlade           7500    4-8 Power Pack
 6 ElectroSword          20000   5-10 Power Pack
 7 ElectroLance          40000   6-12 Power Pack
 8 Neutron Sabre        250000  14-22 Neutron Pack

Purchase which weapon number (Q=Quit,?=List) ? 3
Purchase a Sword (Y/N) ? y
Ok. It's yours.
Short Range Weapons store
-------------------------
   [L] List SR weapons available.
   [B] Purchase a weapon.
   [S] View data on a weapon.
   [C] View your character.
   [Q] Supply Station.

SR Weapons Store Selection ]Supply Station
Supply Station
--------------
   [W] Weapons (Short Range).
   [L] Weapons (Long Range).
   [A] Armor.
   [M] Miscellaneous.
   [B] Ammunition
   [E] Computer Store
   [S] Sell something to store
   [C] View your character.
   [Q] Base Operations.

Supply Station Selection ]Miscellaneous Store
Misc. store
-----------
   [L] List Items available.
   [B] Buy item.
   [S] View data on item.
   [C] View your character.
   [Q] Supply Station.

Misc. Store Selection ]Buy
Purchase which item number (Q=Quit,?=List) ? ?
## Name               Cost
-- ------------------ --------
 1 Radio                  1000
 2 LR Scan               32000
 3 MedKit/10               750
 4 MedKit/15              1500
 5 MedKit/25              5000
 6 MedKit/50             10000
 7 Rations/5               250
 8 Rations/10              750
 9 Rations/20             5000
10 Scanner               25000
11 Stealth Field          2000
12 Recharger/3          250000
13 Pylon Key               250

Purchase which item number (Q=Quit,?=List) ? 3
Purchase a MedKit/10 (Y/N) ? y
Ok. It's yours.
Misc. store
-----------
   [L] List Items available.
   [B] Buy item.
   [S] View data on item.
   [C] View your character.
   [Q] Supply Station.

Misc. Store Selection ]Supply Station
Supply Station
--------------
   [W] Weapons (Short Range).
   [L] Weapons (Long Range).
   [A] Armor.
   [M] Miscellaneous.
   [B] Ammunition
   [E] Computer Store
   [S] Sell something to store
   [C] View your character.
   [Q] Base Operations.

Supply Station Selection ]Base Operations
Base Operations
---------------
   [S] Enter the supply station.
   [T] Enter troop quarters.
   [D] Documentation Menu.
   [P] Commodities trading.
   [G] Base Casino.
   [M] Mail Room.
   [U] Puritron Room.
   [C] View your character.
   [W] Enter the wasteland.
   [Q] Exit Game.

Base Operations Selection ]Troop Quarters
Troop Quarters
--------------
   [O] Combat Mode Selection.
   [L] List player rankings.
   [X] Toggle expert mode.
   [A] Ansi options.
   [T] Tavern.
   [I] Investment options.
   [M] Inventory Maintenance.
   [E] Equip Character.
   [V] View Log.
   [C] View your character.
   [Q] Base Operations.

Troop Quarters Selection ]View Character
Character Profile
-----------------
Name..........: WASTE-M-ALL       Weapon (Close): None.
Hit Points....: 25/25             Weapon (Range): None.
Strength......: 21                Armor.........: None.
Dexterity.....: 21                Med Lining....: None.
Agility.......: 21                B.A.D. Device.: None.
Experience....: 0                 Aux Close Weap: None.
Money.........: 250
Minerals......: 0 cm3
Fuel..........: 0 cm3
Herbs.........: 0 cm3
Special Quests: -------
Inventory.....: 
  1>MedKit/10        2>Rations/5        3>Sword            4>MedKit/10        
  5>                 6>                 7>                 8>                 
  9>                 10>                11>                12>                
  13>                14>                15>                16>                


 Press Any Key 
Troop Quarters
--------------
   [O] Combat Mode Selection.
   [L] List player rankings.
   [X] Toggle expert mode.
   [A] Ansi options.
   [T] Tavern.
   [I] Investment options.
   [M] Inventory Maintenance.
   [E] Equip Character.
   [V] View Log.
   [C] View your character.
   [Q] Base Operations.

Troop Quarters Selection ]Enter Tavern
Welcome to the Tavern!

You casually enter the Tavern and begin to look around. While you are here,
You notice the following people:

   1> Defs Sacre
   2> Jeffrey
   3> Troy Hadley
   4> Mean Max
   5> Captain Targon

Who do you want to talk to ? 1
Howdy there. NAME's Defs Sacre. I used to be a warrior, but now I've retired
and serve as bartender here at the base. I know lots about MONSTERS, ARMOR,
WEAPONS, etc. What you want to know about?

]name
NAME's Defs Sacre, like I said.

]monsters
The wasteland is populated by many different creatures. Most of the ones
around the base here are pretty wimpy and some are even unarmed. But once you
go farther out, things get real nasty real quick. What MONSTER do you want to
know about?

]ant
ANT Men? They are a strange lot. Kind of a cross between an ANT and a man.
Nobody knows how it happened - probably more radiation caused mutation.

]weapons
I know lots about WEAPONS. What do you want to know about? SHORT range or
LONG range WEAPONS? I also have used some GRENADES in my time.

]short
There are lots of SHORT range WEAPONS. My favorite is the Slicer-Dicer. They
don't sell them around here - I found it on some kinda robot a ways away from
here. Hell of a battle getting the thing.

]bye
Later, dude. Hope to see you again in one piece.

Welcome to the Tavern!

You casually enter the Tavern and begin to look around. While you are here,
You notice the following people:

   1> Defs Sacre
   2> Jeffrey
   3> Troy Hadley
   4> Mean Max
   5> Captain Targon

Who do you want to talk to ? 
Troop Quarters
--------------
   [O] Combat Mode Selection.
   [L] List player rankings.
   [X] Toggle expert mode.
   [A] Ansi options.
   [T] Tavern.
   [I] Investment options.
   [M] Inventory Maintenance.
   [E] Equip Character.
   [V] View Log.
   [C] View your character.
   [Q] Base Operations.

Troop Quarters Selection ]Base Operations
Base Operations
---------------
   [S] Enter the supply station.
   [T] Enter troop quarters.
   [D] Documentation Menu.
   [P] Commodities trading.
   [G] Base Casino.
   [M] Mail Room.
   [U] Puritron Room.
   [C] View your character.
   [W] Enter the wasteland.
   [Q] Exit Game.

Base Operations Selection ]Wasteland
Enter Wastelands, are you sure (Y/N) ? Yes.
Type "?" for help.

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,7,5        Health...: 25/25
 -- -- ||   Type.....: Town         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 || 11^||   Dist/Zone: 0/1
 || -- mm   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 0
  Time Left: 227          Level....: 1

<*>West        

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,6,5        Health...: 25/25
 mm -- --   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 -- || 11^  Dist/Zone: 1/1
 -- || --   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 0
  Time Left: 227          Level....: 1

<*>South       

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,6,6        Health...: 25/25
 -- || 11^  Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 -- || --   Dist/Zone: 1/1
 || || --   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 0
  Time Left: 227          Level....: 1

<*>Equip       

Equip What:
   C-Close Weapon      A - Armor             B - B.A.D. Device
   R-Ranged Weapon     L - Medical Lining    X - Aux Close Weapon

Selection ? Close Weapon
Select which item number (?=List,0=None) ? ?
  1>MedKit/10        2>Rations/5        3>Sword            4>MedKit/10        
  5>                 6>                 7>                 8>                 
  9>                 10>                11>                12>                
  13>                14>                15>                16>                

Select which item number (?=List,0=None) ? 3

Equip What:
   C-Close Weapon      A - Armor             B - B.A.D. Device
   R-Ranged Weapon     L - Medical Lining    X - Aux Close Weapon

Selection ? Quit

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,6,6        Health...: 25/25
 -- || 11^  Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 -- || --   Dist/Zone: 1/1
 || || --   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 0
  Time Left: 227          Level....: 1

<*>South       

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,6,7        Health...: 25/25
 -- || --   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 || || --   Dist/Zone: 2/1
 mm -- --   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 0
  Time Left: 226          Level....: 1

<*>West        

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,5,7        Health...: 25/25
 mm -- ||   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 || || ||   Dist/Zone: 3/1
 || mm --   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 0
  Time Left: 226          Level....: 1

<*>West        

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,4,7        Health...: 25/25
 MM mm --   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 MM || ||   Dist/Zone: 4/1
 MM || mm   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 0
  Time Left: 226          Level....: 1

<*>South       

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,4,8        Health...: 25/25
 MM || ||   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 MM || mm   Dist/Zone: 4/1
 MM CC MM   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 0
  Time Left: 226          Level....: 1

<*>South       

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,4,9        Health...: 25/25
 MM || mm   Type.....: Clone Cntr   St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 MM CC MM   Dist/Zone: 5/1
 MM MM MM   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 0
  Time Left: 226          Level....: 1

<*>Enter Town  

Clone Center
------------
   [V] View current clone.
   [D] Delete current clone.
   [S] Swap with clone.
   [M] Make a new clone.
   [C] View your character.
   [Q] Quit to wastelands.

Clone Center Selection ]View current clone
You do not have a clone.

 Press Any Key 

Clone Center
------------
   [V] View current clone.
   [D] Delete current clone.
   [S] Swap with clone.
   [M] Make a new clone.
   [C] View your character.
   [Q] Quit to wastelands.

Clone Center Selection ]Make new clone
Cloning yourself will cost $4400. Proceed [Y/N] ? No

Clone Center
------------
   [V] View current clone.
   [D] Delete current clone.
   [S] Swap with clone.
   [M] Make a new clone.
   [C] View your character.
   [Q] Quit to wastelands.

Clone Center Selection ]Quit to wastelands

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,4,9        Health...: 25/25
 MM || mm   Type.....: Clone Cntr   St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 MM CC MM   Dist/Zone: 5/1
 MM MM MM   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 0
  Time Left: 226          Level....: 1

<*>North       

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,4,8        Health...: 25/25
 MM || ||   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 MM || mm   Dist/Zone: 4/1
 MM CC MM   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 0
  Time Left: 226          Level....: 1

<*>North       

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,4,7        Health...: 25/25
 MM mm --   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 MM || ||   Dist/Zone: 4/1
 MM || mm   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 0
  Time Left: 226          Level....: 1

<*>East        

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,5,7        Health...: 25/25
 mm -- ||   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 || || ||   Dist/Zone: 3/1
 || mm --   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 0
  Time Left: 226          Level....: 1

<*>East        

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,6,7        Health...: 25/25
 -- || --   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 || || --   Dist/Zone: 2/1
 mm -- --   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 0
  Time Left: 226          Level....: 1

<*>North       

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,6,6        Health...: 25/25
 -- || 11^  Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 -- || --   Dist/Zone: 1/1
 || || --   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 0
  Time Left: 226          Level....: 1

<*>North       

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,6,5        Health...: 25/25
 mm -- --   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 -- || 11^  Dist/Zone: 1/1
 -- || --   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 0
  Time Left: 226          Level....: 1

A voice yells out from the brush "Like gimme like all of your money or 
like I'll have to like kill you! Like do what I say, like now, ok?". It is 
a mutant valley-girl. Once dreaded only as department store temporaries 
during holiday seasons, the radiation has turned them into a very hideous 
foe. 

Press any key.
Long Range Encounter
--------------------

  [L] Fight long range combat
  [G] Chuck a rad-grenade at enemy
  [H] Fight close range combat (hand-to-hand)
  [R] Run away
  [S] Surrender
  [T] Attempt to strike up a conversation.

  [C] Check status
  [V] View Opponent


Long Range Encounter ]Talk to Opponent
Like what do you like want? I'm gonna like KILL you like right now. Like
understand?

]kill
Like gimme a K! Like gimme an I! Like gimme an L! Like gimme another L!
I'm gonna like KILL you!

]bye
Ok. I gotta like KILL you now.


 Press Any Key 
Long Range Encounter
--------------------

  [L] Fight long range combat
  [G] Chuck a rad-grenade at enemy
  [H] Fight close range combat (hand-to-hand)
  [R] Run away
  [S] Surrender
  [T] Attempt to strike up a conversation.

  [C] Check status
  [V] View Opponent


Long Range Encounter ]Hand-To-Hand

You prepare for hand-to-hand combat!

[Status - Waste-M-All: 25/25; Valley Girl: 20/20]
A]ttack T]ill-death R]un S]urrender V]iew C]har W]arp E]xchange >->Attack
Your Sword bounces off of Valley Girl's armor.

The Valley Girl throws a mighty punch to your face, throwing you to 
the ground.

[Status - Waste-M-All: 24/25; Valley Girl: 20/20]
A]ttack T]ill-death R]un S]urrender V]iew C]har W]arp E]xchange >->Attack
With a savage war-cry, you slam your Sword into your enemy's chest, 
crushing his ribs!

Catching you in surprise, the Valley Girl throws you to the ground 
with a low-kick.

[Status - Waste-M-All: 23/25; Valley Girl: 16/20]
A]ttack T]ill-death R]un S]urrender V]iew C]har W]arp E]xchange >->Attack
Your Sword streaks past Valley Girl in a vain miss.

The Valley Girl's takes a flying leap at you and lands face-first on 
the ground.

[Status - Waste-M-All: 23/25; Valley Girl: 16/20]
A]ttack T]ill-death R]un S]urrender V]iew C]har W]arp E]xchange >->Attack
With the might of a warrior, you hack off some of Valley Girl's flesh 
as a souvenir!

You successfully block the Valley Girl's oncoming attack and send him 
flying to the ground in defeat.

[Status - Waste-M-All: 23/25; Valley Girl: 14/20]
A]ttack T]ill-death R]un S]urrender V]iew C]har W]arp E]xchange >->Attack
Your Sword fails to penetrate Valley Girl's armor.

You successfully block the Valley Girl's oncoming attack and send him
flying to the ground in defeat.

[Status - Waste-M-All: 23/25; Valley Girl: 14/20]
A]ttack T]ill-death R]un S]urrender V]iew C]har W]arp E]xchange >->Attack
You viciously tear into Valley Girl with your Sword!

The Valley Girl lunges at you, knocking you off your feet.

[Status - Waste-M-All: 22/25; Valley Girl: 9/20]
A]ttack T]ill-death R]un S]urrender V]iew C]har W]arp E]xchange >->Attack
Anticipating your attack, Valley Girl proves a bit faster than the 
you, and executes a skillful dodge.

Catching you in surprise, the Valley Girl throws you to the ground 
with a low-kick.

[Status - Waste-M-All: 21/25; Valley Girl: 9/20]
A]ttack T]ill-death R]un S]urrender V]iew C]har W]arp E]xchange >->Attack
With a savage war-cry, you slam your Sword into your enemy's chest, 
crushing his ribs!

Catching you in surprise, the Valley Girl throws you to the ground 
with a low-kick.

[Status - Waste-M-All: 19/25; Valley Girl: 7/20]
A]ttack T]ill-death R]un S]urrender V]iew C]har W]arp E]xchange >->Attack
Your Sword slices through Valley Girl's skin as he falls backward in 
defeat!

The Valley Girl lunges at you, knocking you off your feet.

[Status - Waste-M-All: 17/25; Valley Girl: 5/20]
A]ttack T]ill-death R]un S]urrender V]iew C]har W]arp E]xchange >->Attack
You plunge your Sword deep into Valley Girl's chest, sending it to 
the ground howling in pain!

Catching you in surprise, the Valley Girl throws you to the ground 
with a low-kick.

[Status - Waste-M-All: 16/25; Valley Girl: 2/20]
A]ttack T]ill-death R]un S]urrender V]iew C]har W]arp E]xchange >->Attack
The Valley Girl successfully blocks your oncoming attack and sends
you flying to the ground in defeat.

Catching you in surprise, the Valley Girl throws you to the ground
with a low-kick.

[Status - Waste-M-All: 14/25; Valley Girl: 2/20]
A]ttack T]ill-death R]un S]urrender V]iew C]har W]arp E]xchange >->Attack
You catch Valley Girl off-guard and slice it with your Sword!

[Status - Waste-M-All: 14/25; Valley Girl: 0/20]
As the mutant valley girl falls toward the ground, she utters "This like 
really sucks dude." She will trouble you no more now. 

You gain 252 experience and 105 gold from the encounter.

<*>
Wastelands Help
---------------
  North...: N or 8     Pick Up Item: P     Enter Town....: G
  South...: S or 2     Drop Item...: D     Camp out here.: A
  East....: E or 6     Check Status: C     Construct fort: F
  West....: W or 6     Equip.......: Q     Enter Fort....: I
  Look....: L or 5     Use Item....: U     Inv Maint.....: M
  Kill Obj: K          Quick Heal..: Y     B.A.D. Spell..: B

 Press Any Key 

Nearby Items
------------
 356>Cheerldr Suit/1 357>Ghetto Blaster

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,6,5        Health...: 14/25
 mm -- --   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 -- ||+11^  Dist/Zone: 1/1
 -- || --   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 252
  Time Left: 225          Level....: 1

<*>Quick Heal  
Quick heal used 2 medkit doses. 18 remain.

Nearby Items
------------
 356>Cheerldr Suit/1 357>Ghetto Blaster

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,6,5        Health...: 25/25
 mm -- --   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 -- ||+11^  Dist/Zone: 1/1
 -- || --   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 252
  Time Left: 225          Level....: 1

<*>Pick Up     
Pick up which object from ground (?=List) ? 356

Nearby Items
------------
 357>Ghetto Blaster

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,6,5        Health...: 25/25
 mm -- --   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 -- ||+11^  Dist/Zone: 1/1
 -- || --   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 252
  Time Left: 225          Level....: 1

<*>Pick Up     
Pick up which object from ground (?=List) ? 357

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,6,5        Health...: 25/25
 mm -- --   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 -- || 11^  Dist/Zone: 1/1
 -- || --   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 252
  Time Left: 225          Level....: 1

<*>Use Object  
Use which object from inventory (?=List) ? ?
  1>MedKit/8         2>Rations/5        3>Cheerldr Suit/1  4>MedKit/10        
  5>Ghetto Blaster   6>                 7>                 8>                 
  9>                 10>                11>                12>                
  13>                14>                15>                16>                

Use which object from inventory (?=List) ? 5

"Today, several villagers were killed as yet another earthquake rocked the 
island of California ..."

 Press Any Key 

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,6,5        Health...: 25/25
 mm -- --   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 -- || 11^  Dist/Zone: 1/1
 -- || --   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 252
  Time Left: 225          Level....: 1

<*>East        

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,7,5        Health...: 25/25
 -- -- ||   Type.....: Town         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 || 11^||   Dist/Zone: 0/1
 || -- mm   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 252
  Time Left: 225          Level....: 1

<*>East        

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,8,5        Health...: 25/25
 -- || ||   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 11^|| mm^  Dist/Zone: 1/1
 -- mm mm   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 252
  Time Left: 225          Level....: 1

<*>North       

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,8,4        Health...: 25/25
 -- mm mm   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 -- || ||   Dist/Zone: 1/1
 11^|| mm^  Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 252
  Time Left: 225          Level....: 1

<*>East        

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,9,4        Health...: 25/25
 mm mm mm   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 || || ||   Dist/Zone: 2/1
 || mm^mm^  Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 252
  Time Left: 225          Level....: 1

<*>East        

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,10,4       Health...: 25/25
 mm mm mm+  Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 || || ||   Dist/Zone: 3/1
 mm^mm^mm^  Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 252
  Time Left: 225          Level....: 1

<*>East        

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,11,4       Health...: 25/25
 mm mm+mm   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 || || ||   Dist/Zone: 4/1
 mm^mm^||   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 252
  Time Left: 225          Level....: 1

<*>North       

Nearby Items
------------
 353>MedKit/10      354>Rations/5     

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,11,3       Health...: 25/25
 MM MM MM   Type.....: Mountains    St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 mm mm+mm   Dist/Zone: 4/1
 || || ||   Danger...: 15%          Exper....: 252
  Time Left: 225          Level....: 1

<*>Pick Up     
Pick up which object from ground (?=List) ? 353

Nearby Items
------------
 354>Rations/5     

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,11,3       Health...: 25/25
 MM MM MM   Type.....: Mountains    St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 mm mm+mm   Dist/Zone: 4/1
 || || ||   Danger...: 15%          Exper....: 252
  Time Left: 225          Level....: 1

<*>Pick Up     
Pick up which object from ground (?=List) ? 354

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,11,3       Health...: 25/25
 MM MM MM   Type.....: Mountains    St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 mm mm mm   Dist/Zone: 4/1
 || || ||   Danger...: 15%          Exper....: 252
  Time Left: 225          Level....: 1

<*>South       

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,11,4       Health...: 25/25
 mm mm mm   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 || || ||   Dist/Zone: 4/1
 mm^mm^||   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 252
  Time Left: 225          Level....: 1

<*>East        

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,12,4       Health...: 25/25
 mm mm MM   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 || || MM   Dist/Zone: 5/1
 mm^|| mm   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 252
  Time Left: 225          Level....: 1

<*>South       

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,12,5       Health...: 25/25
 || || MM   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 mm^|| mm   Dist/Zone: 5/1
 mm || mm   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 252
  Time Left: 225          Level....: 1

<*>South       

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,12,6       Health...: 25/25
 mm^|| mm   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 mm || mm   Dist/Zone: 5/1
 mm || ..   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 252
  Time Left: 225          Level....: 1

<*>South

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,12,7       Health...: 25/25
 mm || mm   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 mm || ..   Dist/Zone: 5/1
 mm || ||   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 252
  Time Left: 225          Level....: 1

<*>South       

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,12,8       Health...: 25/25
 mm || ..   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 mm || ||   Dist/Zone: 6/1
 .. .. ..   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 252
  Time Left: 225          Level....: 1

<*>East        

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,13,8       Health...: 25/25
 || .. ..   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 || || ||   Dist/Zone: 7/1
 .. .. ..   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 252
  Time Left: 224          Level....: 1

<*>East        

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,14,8       Health...: 25/25
 .. .. ..   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 || || ||   Dist/Zone: 8/1
 .. .. ..   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 252
  Time Left: 224          Level....: 1

<*>East        

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,15,8       Health...: 25/25
 .. .. ..   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 || || ||+  Dist/Zone: 9/1
 .. .. ..   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 252
  Time Left: 224          Level....: 1

<*>East

Nearby Items
------------
  65>Apron/8        192>Cloth/2       

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,16,8       Health...: 25/25
 .. .. ..   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 || ||+||   Dist/Zone: 9/1
 .. .. ||   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 252
  Time Left: 224          Level....: 1

<*>East        

                    [Terrain]               [Status]
  Location.: 1,17,8       Health...: 25/25
 .. .. ..   Type.....: Road         St/Dx/Ag.: 21/21/21
 ||+|| ..   Dist/Zone: 10/1
 .. || ..   Danger...: 5%           Exper....: 252
  Time Left: 224          Level....: 1

<*>Camp Out    
Camp here, are you sure (Y/N) ? Yes
@@FININFO
Financial Options
-----------------
      In the investment options menu of the troop quarters, there are a few
  different financial options that you can perform. These are:

  1] Withdrawing/Depositing money in your "standard account"

     The standard account is a safe investment which will earn you 7% of your
  money per night. Your money is always safe there - it can't be lost, stolen,
  etc.

  2] Withdraw/Deposit money in your "game account"

     The game account is a special account which will earn you 14% per
  day. However, this money is not without risk. Other players can "challenge"
  you to games. They will challenge you for up to 50% of what is in your
  account. If they win, you will gain 50%, if you lose, then you will lose
  50% for them. For example:

    a> Defs Sacre has $500 in his account.

    b> Atlas Eyes challenges for $250. If Atlas Eyes wins the game then he
       will get $250 of Defs Sacre's money. Otherwise, Atlas Eyes will lose
       $250 of his money to Defs Sacre.

    c> Atlas Eyes loses. And Defs Sacre ends up with $750.

    d> maint runs and Defs Sacre earns 14% interest on his $750, bringing his
       total up to $1000. Not bad!

  3] Request a loan

     You may request a lone from the bank. They will usually loan you up to
  5% of your worth. Each day the amount you are required to pay back will
  rise by 18%. They will get increasingly upset if you do not pay this
  off very quickly.

  4] Pay off loan

     You can pay off as much of your loan as you wish at any time. Paying off
  your loan is wise as any unpaid balance accumulates 20% interest per
  night.

  5] Financial Statement

     Just summarizes how much money you have (or don't have?)

  6] Financial Info

     A brief summary of the available financial options.

  7] Deposit/Withdraw rent account

     The rent account is a special account that is managed by Hotels-R-Us.
  Here's how it works: The guys at Hotels-R-Us are very nice - they will
  let you stay at any city for FREE until you reach level eight. But, once
  you reach level 8, you will have to start paying rent.

     Each night, an additional rent charge will be added to your account.
  When you get on at your next log on, you should probably pay this charge
  off. If you have not paid by the next time, then Hotels-R-Us will deny
  you access to the city! (although there are some rather unpleasant
  ways to get back into the city).

     Unlike the other two accounts, the rent account can have either a
  surplus or a deficit in it. A deficit (negative money) means that you
  owe Hotels-R-Us and they will get upset if they aren't paid.

     A surplus in the account means that you have extra money there that
  might pay for a few days rent.

     So what does all this mean? It means, once you get to level 8, buy
  a base and live there instead! (If you stay in a base or camp out in the
  wasteland, you are not charged rent)


@@Q&A
Questions and Answers:

Q. When I view a monster, it says his weapons do a certain amount of damage,
   but when I fight him, he hits for many more points!

A. The damage listed for his weapons is the BASE damage level. The actual
   damage is dependent on his strength. For a weak monster, the damage
   done will be less that the weapons rating. For a strong monster, the
   damage will be greater.


Q. How do I get to the lower levels?

A. You don't! Starting with version 2.00 of LOD and up, there is no lower
   map. The top level was increased in size to provide for a more
   realistic game environment.


Q. What are these "special quests" ?

A. They are exactly as the name implies - a few little side adventures
   thrown in to add flavor to the game. Sometimes talking to the residents
   of a town may get you some insight into a quest, otherwise, locating
   and using a special object may help. Remember, always try out all of
   the gadgets you find in the wasteland!


Q. I don't like this "xxx's weapon disintegrates as it falls to the ground"
   stuff. How can I get rid of it?

A. If you're the sysop (or game operator), then you can go into monster.def,
   find the character "DEFAULT_1", go down to the line which says "DESINT 35"
   and change it to a smaller value. The smaller the value, the less the
   chance that weapons, armor, etc will be disintegrated.
